I'm going to show you how to open and
clean a scallop the scallop I have today
is a king scallop also available in the
UK little Queen scallops there are much
much smaller shell as with all mollusks
when you purchase a scallop in the shell
you do need to make sure that it's
actually still alive and I can tell that
because this shell is nice and tightly
shut
as with other mollusks like oysters and
mussels the shell is not going to be
quite as tightly closed as in this
particular case the shell is slightly
corrugated but it does want to be quite
tight with these when you store them in
the fridge and you can purchase them in
the shell you want to store them rounded
side down and they'll keep for a few
days to actually open the scallop I'm
going to use a shocking knife the
variety of ways of actually doing this
for my purposes I'm going to just insert
the shucking knife which is like an
oyster knife into the hinge area of the
scallop and just prise it open a little
bit just to make sure that I've got a
little bit of an opening at that stage
I'm now going to turn the scallop flat
side down and using a filling knife
which is got a little bit of flexibility
I'm going to actually press the knife
down and run it across the bottom shell
to release it from the the flat side of
the shell to peel that away what I now
need to do is remove the scallop from
the shell but we can just look very
quickly as the contents we've got the
main meat in there and underneath here
we will find a little bit of row the row
or coral is the orange little piece
there I'm going to use a spoon to
release this from the shell but just
slip the spoon right underneath there
and doing that it actually pulls it away
from the muscle and it prevents too much
loss of meat with the scallop itself we
have a frill around the edge it also
loses some of its stomach contents the
stomach contents of this black piece
here that wants to be pulled away and
all of that would be discarded with that
there's also a little piece of the
stomach sank remaining there I'm going
to pull that off or you can just use
to trim it having trimmed the scallop we
now want to wash it and a bowl of cold
water just rinse that away taking care
that you make sure remove any remaining
pieces of stomach and make sure that's
nicely rinsed once we've done that it's
just about ready for cooking fishmongers
very often still sell it with a harder
piece or thicker piece of muscle on one
side of the scallop and chefs very often
like to trim that away which you can do
once that's done all you need to do with
that is either pan fry it little bit of
bacon to read so or just straight on to
the barbecue and that's how you prepare
scallops